---
layout: post
title:  "The Draft"
date:   2017-06-01 20:00:00 -0500
category: Project
tags: ['C++', 'UnrealEngine', 'Vive', 'VR', 'Strategy', 'Combat']
showcase: true
thumbnail: 'images/the-draft.png'
author: "Sanjay Nambiar"
comments: true
---

## VR Combat Meets Real Time Strategy

<div class='embed-container'>
	<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/nmX3WpjZgX0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>
<br/>

#### Introduction
The Draft is a virtual reality, strategy sports, game where the units are also the ball. The idea behind The Draft is giving the player
complete control of all aspects of the game. A traditional RTS game lets the player control the strategy and micro manage units but the
actual combat itself is not under player's control and they are a battle of stats and rules. In a full combat game, the player doesn't
have the control of unit movements like that of an RTS. The Draft is a unique blend of real time strategy, turn based action and first
person combat.

#### Gameplay
The gameplay treats the combat more like a team sports comparable to soccer or football rather than bloody combat. Players control a team
of 3 units to fight against an AI opponent team. Each team has a goal zone which the other team's unit should make contact with resulting
in a goal and a round reset. If units of opposite teams come within an attack distance, they enter combat and the VR player gets teleported
into the shoes of the player's unit under combat to fight the battle. Once a unit is defeated, the winner gets a chance to strike the defeated
unit and launch him to a certain distance. There are zones in the map which act as penalty zones and if the winner strikes the defeated unit
into a penalty zone, the panaltied unit goes out of the match for some time.

The map also features varying topography and spots of interests which activates various effects on the map to influencing map control
including temporarily transforming to an archer giving control over a wider area.

#### Technology and my contribution
The game is built in Unreal Engine 4.15, using both C++ and blueprints extensively. The team has 16 memebers consisting of 5 programmers,
5 artists, 6 producers and the project is actively under development closing its beta milestone on July 1st 2017. The total time span
of the project is 8 months. I worked as the lead programmer in the team, laying down foundations of gameplay systems like global event manager,
flow control from start of the game, transitioning between strategic mode and combat mode etc. I have also implemented player unit control
module using C++, which lets player's specify single or multiple locations in the map which the active unit will navigate to. Beign the lead
programmer, I have also helped design the animation state machine and AI behavior tree interactions to minimize coupling between the systems.
My main focus for the final leg of the project is lot of playtesting and helping the team fix bugs as and when necessary. I have also been
working with producers and artists, especially the other leads, to come up with granular tasks based on priority and help delegate them to
the programmers.
